[AUDIO LOGO]
>> Hi.
I am so happy to be here
because I love discomfort,
so I am right at home.
In my early 30s, I was
diagnosed with three autoimmune
conditions--
Hashimoto's thyroiditis,
eosinophilic esophagitis,
and urticaria.
They didn't give me the
dictionary on these words
or how to figure them out.
And in my journey,
getting these diagnoses,
going through our modern
health care system,
I kept stacking
prescription medications
on my bed stand table.
And the more years went by,
the more specialists were added
to my repertoire, the
more vitamins, pills,
and supplements were
added to my nightstand.
I wasn't getting better.
Nothing that I was doing
in the medical system
was helping me get well.
And I tried alternative healing.
I tried the acupuncture.
I tried the herbal remedies.
I tried everything.
And things weren't working.
And I was at my wits end.
I was tired of being tired.
I was tired of being sick.
I was tired of saying
no to every opportunity
in life because I didn't
have the energy to show up.
So I'm an avid reader.
And I was reading all kinds
of books, fiction, nonfiction.
And the nonfiction, I'm
reading about Nassim Taleb
in "Antifragile" and his
practice in deliberate cold
exposure, Aubrey
Marcus, "Own the Day."
A lot of people are
talking about it.
And then in the fiction
sense, Steinbeck, Hemingway.
Do you know they also
practiced cold exposure just
instinctually?
And so here I was
at my wits end,
not finding the
answers that I was
looking for in the
modern medical system.
And I'm finding all
these little seeds
being planted about Adrian--
just take an ice bath.
Wait a minute.
What?
I think I'd rather not.
I grew up in Florida.
I lived in Hawaii.
I spent the last 20 years
in Phoenix, Arizona.
And if I could make that
summertime last all year round,
I would.
But I can't.
So begrudgingly, I drag
a big ol' horse trough
into the backyard.
Got a few hundred pounds of ice.
Did this wild,
hyperventilate, holotropic,
hyperactive breathwork-- you
all probably know the one--
to prepare me for this ice bath.
So did my 30 minutes of--
[PANTING]
And then I walk over
to that ice bath.
And I have to be
first because I'm not
going to watch anyone else
do this before I do this.
And I put one foot on each side
and I put one hand on each side.
And I drop myself
into this ice water.
And I held my breath.
Turns out that
lasted nine seconds.
And then I leapt out.
And I freaked out.
And two things
happened right away.
That guaranteed I would take
another ice bath, not that day.
But the first thing
that I noticed
was the chronic pain
in my legs that I'd
had for 10 years that had no
diagnosis was completely gone.
That relief alone was going
to get me back in the cold.
The second thing that I noticed
was a sense of empowerment
like I had never
felt in my life.
Like, I am a sick person.
I am a chronically ill person.
I am overweight.
I am depressed.
I am unhappy.
And I did this.
I am a sunshine girl.
Go me.
So by the time I got to my
third or fourth ice bath,
I'm standing in front
of it, ready to do
the same thing, my hyperactive
holotropic breathwork,
and then drop myself
violently into the water
because I can beat this.
No, no, we cannot beat the cold.
And it's my third
or fourth ice bath.
And I'm standing in
front of the ice water.
And I'm staring at it.
And I cannot move.
I was in my own freeze response
before I ever even got cold.
And I realized I
was creating all
of this hyperactive energy
around this challenging
practice.
And when we meet the
stressors in life,
we don't benefit by being
reactive to those stressors,
by meeting them with more
aggression and stress.
We benefit by pausing,
evaluating, reflecting and then
responding from a calm place.
So as I'm standing there
staring at the water,
knowing that all I have to
do is get to the other side
because that's where
the feel good is.
I'm like, how am I
going to do this?
How am I going to do this?
I'm terrified.
I was more scared by that
third or fourth ice bath
than I was from the first.
And so I realized I had
to draw on my experiences
in life that helped bring me out
of this anxious state of mind
and into my body.
And how do I do that?
It's a little bit of yoga nidra.
I feel my feet firm on
the ground beneath me.
I can allow my hands and arms
to hang loose by my side.
I can breathe into my belly.
Instead of my chest,
I can activate my
physical senses.
What can I hear?
Smell, see, taste and touch.
And by bringing myself
into my physical body,
I'm bringing myself out
of this anxious headspace.
And that was the first time
that I stepped intentionally
with full, deliberate
intention into an ice bath.
And I put both feet on
the bottom of the tub.
And I sat down
without hesitation.
And I leaned back.
And I breathe deep into my
belly as slow as I could.
And I sat there for 2
minutes, and then I got out.
And I did not freak out.
And I got more
from that ice bath
than I had the combination
of the ones leading up
to it because I chose calm.
And we all have this choice.
We all have the
choice to choose calm.
Practicing in the ice bath
is this safe environment
that creates this
fight-or-flight response
and gives me the
opportunity to practice
how am I going to respond
to that stress response.
And so each time I take
an ice bath, I step out,
I feel like a whole new person.
I'm now going days without
the chronic pain in my legs.
I've got energy to make
it through a whole day.
I was feeling great.
I was telling anyone
who would listen,
do you know what I
just figured out?
The cold.
That's the answer.
I started guiding
other people using
my own idea, my own technique of
how to get through this stress
response.
By August of 2019, less than
two years from my very first ice
bath, I reversed all traits
of autoimmune in my system.
I spent over a year weaning off
every prescription medication.
When I went in for my labs
to my endocrinologist,
I didn't tell her.
Just had to read my labs.
She says, Adrian, this is great.
Everything's within range.
I want you to keep
doing what you're doing.
I said, cool.
I'm taking ice baths.
She's like, great.
This is fantastic.
She writes it down in my file.
She says, I hope I never
have to see you again.
And I'm thinking,
yeah, me too, me too,
until I walked out
in the waiting room.
And I saw a dozen other people,
overweight, overmedicated
stuck in the system.
And do you think
that she was going
to tell any one of those
people that I just did
the miracle of all
miracles and reversed all
trace of autoimmune
this chronic illness
that there was no cure for?
No.
So since that day
in August 2019,
I have taken it upon myself
not only to share the healing
benefits of the cold with
anyone who is willing to listen
and some who are not and also
to develop the Morozko method
technique, a sensory-immersive
mindful meditation
to help you move through
the stress response
with a calm mindset.
When you learn this in the
ice, you learn it in life.
I now work closely with
veterans, first responders,
sober living
facilities, and everyone
who is interested in taking
the power of their own healing
into their own hands.
I stand before you today
not because I like the cold.
I do love what it does for me.
Thank you.
>> Nice.
[APPLAUSE]
[AUDIO LOGO]